Pergjigjet Komponente Elektronike:

1. Every known element has:
c) unique type of atoms
2. The nucleus of an atoms consists of
a) protons and neutrons
3. The difference between an insulator and a semiconductor is:
a) a wider energy gap between the valence and  conduction bands
4.The majority carriers is an n-type semiconductor are:
 c) conduction electrons
5. The process of adding impurtities to a pure semiconductor is called
b) doping
6.	A diode conducts current when
 a) forward biased
7. The output frequency of a full-wave rectifier is
b) twice the input frequency
8.The purpose of a capacitor filter in a rectifier is to:
 b) limit the voltage spikes
9.A Zener diode is used for:
 b) voltage regulation
10.A bridge rectifier differs from a half-wave rectifier because:
 a) rectifies both halves of the AC cycle
11.The LED is based on:
 c) electroluminescene
12. A photodiode operates in:
b) reverse bias 

13.  A Schottky diode is primarily used for:
a) low forward voltage drop 
14. The light output of an LED increases when:
a) forward current increases
15. A varactor diode is used as:
 c) a variable capacitor
16. 	The three terminals of a BJT are:
b) base emitter collector
17. A transistor in cutoff acts as:
 a) an open switch
18. The base current of a BJT is:
a) smaller than the collector current
19. The DC Current gain(beta) of a transistor is defined as:
c) the ratio of collector current to base current
20. In a pnp transistor,the p regions are:
 a) base and emitter
21. The most commonly used biasing technique in BJTs is:
a) voltage-divider bias
22. Base biasing is considered unstable because
a) it depends on Beta
23. If the base resistor opens in a voltage-divider biased transistor,the transistor:
a) goes into cutoff
24.Collector-feedback bias provides stability because:
 b) it is independent Beta
25.Thermal runaway occurs in BJTs when:
 b) the transistor overheats and draws more current
26. A small-signal amplifier:
 a) uses only a small portion of its load line
27. The voltage gain of a common-emitter amplifier is  given by:
a) Av= Rc/rc
28.The function of a bypass capacitor in a CE amplifier is to:
 d) increase voltage gain
29.	A common-collector amplifier is also called:
•	(b) An emitter follower
30.	A Darlington pair consists of:
•	(c) Two CE amplifiers
31.	The overall gain of a multistage amplifier is:
•	(b) The product of individual gains
32.	A Class A amplifier:
•	(b) Operates in the linear region at all times
33.	The maximum efficiency of a Class A amplifier is:
•	(a) 25%
34.	The main advantage of Class AB operation is:
•	(a) It eliminates crossover distortion
35.	A Class C amplifier operates:
•	(b) For less than half the input cycle
36.	A push-pull amplifier:
•	(b) Uses two transistors that conduct alternately
37.	A Class D amplifier uses:
•	(a) Pulse-width modulation
38.	The primary purpose of heat sinks in power amplifiers is:
•	(c) To dissipate excess heat
39.	A JFET is a:
•	(b) Unipolar device

40.	The pinch-off voltage (Vp) of a JFET is:
•	(a) The voltage at which ID becomes zero
41.	The main difference between a MOSFET and a JFET is:
•	(b) The MOSFET has no gate current
42.	The two modes of a D-MOSFET are:
•	(a) Enhancement and depletion
43.	The E-MOSFET differs from the D-MOSFET because:
•	(a) It has an induced channel
44.	MOSFETs must be handled carefully because:
•	(a) They are sensitive to overvoltage
45.	In a self-biased JFET circuit, the gate is:
•	(c) At a negative voltage
46.	A common-source (CS) amplifier:
•	(b) Has high input resistance
47.	A cascade amplifier consists of:
•	(a) A common-source and common-gate amplifier
48.	MOSFETs are commonly used for switching because:
•	(c) They have a high input impedance
49.	In a MOSFET switching circuit, the gate voltage:
•	(a) Controls the resistance between drain and source
50.	CMOS circuits use:
•	(b) Two MOSFETs, one p-type and one n-type

